we begin in southern Gaza where the Rafa
border crossing has been closed on the
Palestinian side due to the presence of
Israeli tanks according to the Border
Authority well Israeli tanks are now
blocking the main archery bringing
humanitarian Aid into the strip parts of
which are already experiencing fullblown
famine well that comes after a night of
heavy Israeli bombardment in Rafa in
southern Gaza at least 14 Palestinians
have been killed by Israeli strikes in
the past few hours the attacks follow a
unanimous vote by the Israeli War
cabinet to continue its operation in the
city and comes despite hamas's
announcement that it's ready to accept a
ceasefire
deal intense bombardment very very
intense bombardment air strikes Rockets
artillery shelling tank shelling drones
all firing at
never in my life I am 69 years old have
I ever seen bombardment like this and I
have witnessed sever Wars I have never
seen a war like this one and I really
wanted to leave to evacuate but I
couldn't the reason was that I found
this injured young man We rescued him
but the whole area is completely and
utterly destroyed T abazo is live for us
now in Rafa in southern Gaza so T the
Rafa border crossing is closed what more
can you tell
us yes in fact what was happening
overnight is that the Israeli military
carried a limited incursion on the
Eastern side of Rafa district and the
main target was to control Rafa Crossing
in fact what we have been seeing is that
Israeli military tanks were were
stationed inside the ARA Crossing as we
have been seeing images emerging there
for these tanks says they have been just
moving on the yards of the Crossing from
inside and that's absolutely devastating
because this is the only point that
Palestinians have been using for travel
U Ro and to leave the Gaza Strip but now
no longer Palestinians will be able to
leave the territory in light of this
limited operation that has been carried
out by the Israeli military during the
uh raids there was a heavy fire gun
exchange between Hamas fighting and the
Israeli military a very intense bming
campaign that was a clear cover for the
infiltration to that part of Rafa and
that is a very significant step that has
been taken by the Israeli side regarding
their operation that they have been
saying that Rafa the Egyptian or the
Palestinian side from The Crossing is
very vital for the Israeli military to
control as a very important military
side uh that will that will help them to
control all the the movement of
Palestinians from and in out and into
the Gaza Strip and that step has really
triggered more concerns among
Palestinians who are right now uh have
more growing fears regarding the
expansion of this military incursion to
reach further parts of rafah District
which has been under unrelenting circle
of bombardment within the past 24 hours
and did you mention uh the people there
t i mean how is the population there
reacting to these military movements and
continuing Israeli
bombardments yes uh the vast majority of
of of Gans in Rafa are so worried and
confused regarding that Invasion and
that movement that has been taken by the
Israeli side they have been escalating
the military attacks on Rafa which is
the last remaining shelter for more than
1.5 million Palestinians they have been
moving internally from one place to
another looking for but right now RAF is
the target for the Israeli military as
the eyes of the Israeli forces on the
ground on the Eastern portion of the
city overnight strikes really killed at
least 20 Palestinians in different Air
Raids that targeted a number of
residential houses in the western side
of rafah in the middle and even in the
Norther part where people are so afraid
that Rafa might really meet the same
fate where kanun has really come up and
end up with that is collateral
destruction and all kinds of uh a
milestone of living including
residential houses civil infrastructure
alongside with all basic medical
facilities it's worth remembering that
naar hospital right now is uh cannot
really host the vast majority of
casualties due to the uh its location
which is in the eastern portion of the
city it means that it it's located in
the theater for the of the Israeli
operations in the Eastern parts of Rafa
District where we've been talking to
Medics there expressing their own fears
about their inability to leave to get to
the location of the bombardment in order
to recover injuries and even victims
from such areas in order to not be
targeted by the Israeli forces TK for
now thank
you well Muhammad Jam Jun joins us on
the phone now from the Jordanian Capital
Aman so Israel has taken control of the
raff of Crossing what more have you
heard about this
operation car we're seeing statements
from the Israeli milit
that are saying that their forces have
taken operational control of the Gaza
side of the ra Crossing that borders
Egypt that's what the statement says and
it adds that special forces are scanning
the area uh there's another statement
that says that the Israeli military says
that the Israeli forces are operating in
specific areas of Eastern ra now that's
very much in line with what we heard
from the Israelis Israeli Prime Minister
's office last night there was a
statement uh late in the evening saying
that Israel would continue its R
operations uh and um uh and that also uh
that they were going to be conducting uh
these operations in some type of limited
form that's according to statements
emanating from the prime minister's
office and also from the military late
last night uh the Israeli military is
saying that people have been evacuated
from the area of military operations uh
obviously that's not something that's
been independently confirmed this is in
line with roric that we've heard from
the Israelis over the course of the last
week in which they've been saying that
they are going to be evacuating people
from areas of operation but as I said
that's not something that's been
independently confirmed at this point uh
we also got one more thing from the
Israeli military in which they said that
the Kim Abu saling Abu Salam Crossing uh
has been closed for security reason and
that it will reopen once the security
situation allows this is interesting
because uh this is a Crossing that was
discussed when prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu spoke with US President Joe
Biden on the phone on Monday evening uh
and um the White House readout uh of
that uh said that the Israelis had
committed to reopening that Crossing for
the delivery of Aid so uh this is what
we're hearing at this hour from the
Israeli uh uh military um we expect that
we'll be getting more in the hours to
come uh it's all very interesting
because this is coming at a time when on
the one hand they're saying they're
going to continue these operations but
on the other hand they've also said that
they're going to be sending a delegation
to Cairo to continue negotiations Carrie
well indeed I mean as you say Israel has
sent negotiators to KY but have said the
deal is a long way from being acceptable
to
them yeah that's right that's where this
is going to be very interesting to see
how it plays out because uh right now
what seems to have happened if you're
reading between the lines in in the
statement that that came out last night
from the Israeli Prime Minister's office
it said that the war cabinet had decided
that the operation in R would continue
but it also said that negotiators would
be going to uh to Egypt uh to to try to
reach a deal that was acceptable to the
Israelis uh what's interesting about
that is that um you know Netanyahu the
prime minister of Israel is under a lot
of political pressure right now he's
under pressure from Far right-wing
ministers like it's marinir the national
security minister who uh repeatedly uh
demands that the Prime Minister send
forces into Raa he did so even as as
late as yesterday evening uh on Twitter
uh but then you also have him under
pressure from the opposition saying that
he needs to send this delegation to
Cairo so that they can uh enter into a
ceasefire and bring the captives that
are being held in Gaza back to Israel so
it's a it's sort of a politically
perilous moment for Netanyahu the fact
that they are sending a delegation to
Cairo uh it's going to be interesting to
see if they have a widen enough mandate
to really try and and negotiate or if
they're going to have to continue to
consult with the Prime Minister as has
been the case many times in the past but
um uh the devil is really in the details
right now we will see what happens how
it unfolds over the course of the next
couple of days um but uh what is
transpiring whereas you see Israel
forces saying that they will continue to
go into ra but on the other hand
negotiators are going to Cairo that
seems to be putting this into a holding
pattern so that the Israelis can
continue to do both things at once
Carrie Muhammad jamun in Aman for us
there thank
you and just to explain why Muhammad is
reporting from Aman Benjamin netanyahu's
cabinet has banned aler we're reporting
from outside
Israel make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al